# CI-2693 Algorithms and Structures Laboratory III

## Credits

| USB Credits | ECTS |
|:-----------:|:----:|
|      2      |   4  |

## Hours

| Theory Hours Per Week | Practice Hours Per Week | Laboratory Hours Per Week | Total Hours (12 week Trimester) |
|:---------------------:|:-----------------------:|:-------------------------:|:-------------------------------:|
|           0           |            0            |             3             |                36               |

## Objectives

### General

At the end of the course the student must be able to propose and implement effective and efficient solutions to problems posed using graph theory.

### Specifics

* Design efficient applications using Graph Theory that model problems of interest.
* Evaluate the most appropriate structures to implement your solutions.
* Analyze and select the algorithms that best adapt to problem solving.
* Develop adaptations to fundamental algorithms on graphs.

## Topics

* Introduction to the programming language (imperative and object oriented, which allows encapsulation and concealment of information) to be used. (3 hours)
* Efficient representation of graphs, study of complexity of operations for various representations. (3 hours)
* Graph paths: general labeling and search model. Deep First Search Algorithms (DFS). Application of this algorithm. (3 hours)
* Graph routes: Breath First Search (BFS). Applications of this algorithm. (3 hours)
* Connectivity in graphs: scope, transitive closure, Roy Warshall's algorithm, connected and strongly connected components, articulation points. (3 hours)
* Minimum and maximum cost paths. Dijkstra and Bellman's algorithms. Implementation based on priority queues: representation model with heaps. (3 hours)
* Precedence graphs. Leveling, Topological ordering. (3 hours)
* Trees and Arborescences. Properties Minimum tree cover: Prim and Kruskal algorithm. Efficient implementations using Disjoint Sets with their optimizations: balancing and flattening trees. (3 hours)

## Literature

* Ortega, Maruja, Meza, Oscar. "Grafos y Algoritmos". Equinoccio Editorial, USB. Caracas, 1993.
* Aho; Hopcroft; Ullman. "Estructuras de Datos y Algoritmos". Addison-Wesley.
* Niklaus. Wirth . "Algoritmos y Estructuras de Datos". Prentice Hall Editorial.
* Manual of the programming language used.

## Required to Complete

Laboratory Practices, Quizzes, Closed Workshops and Projects.

## Validity

From January 2015.
