# CI-2692 Algorithms and Structures Laboratory II

## Credits

| USB Credits | ECTS |
|:-----------:|:----:|
|      2      |   4  |

## Hours

| Theory Hours Per Week | Practice Hours Per Week | Laboratory Hours Per Week | Total Hours (12 week Trimester) |
|:---------------------:|:-----------------------:|:-------------------------:|:-------------------------------:|
|           0           |            0            |             3             |                36               |

## Objectives

### General

At the end of the course, the student will be able to model and solve a problem that may arise, using Abstract Data Types (ADT) and algorithms known or designed by him. Additionally, the student must be able to make complexity comparisons between different solutions to the same problem.

### Specifics

* Represent as an ADT a concept of a given problem.
* Implement an ADT based on its formal specification.
* Empirically analyze the cost in time and space of the implementation of an ADT.
* Evaluate different data structures to represent ADTs conveniently.
* Implement search and sorting algorithms.
* Select the search or sorting algorithm that best suits a problem.
* Develop and maintain software libraries systematically.
* Code programs using good techniques and style.
* Design and apply unit testing strategies and functional tests.

## Topics

* Introduction to the programming language (imperative, which allows encapsulation and concealment of information) to use. Programming styles. (3 hours)
* Introduction to the implementation of ADTs. For this, the development of a library for the management of a particular ADT is assigned. Introduction to unit tests. (3 hours)
* Implementation of free algebraic types (3 hours).
* Dynamic implementation of simple types using the referencing operation (3 hours).
* Implementation of some of the most used ADTs: Set, Sequence, Stack, Queue, Dictionary, Binary Trees. Hash Tables (6 hours)
* Implementation of the solution of a problem using the ADTs of the software library that is built progressively. Introduction to functional tests (3 hours)
* Study and implementation of search and ordering algorithms. (6 hours)
* Empirical study of the cost of an algorithm. (3 hours)

## Literature

* T.H. Cormen, C.E. Leiserson, R.L. Rivest & C. Stein, Introduction to Algorithms, The MIT Press, 3rd edition, 2009. Chapters 1, 2, 3 and 4; 6 and 7; 10, 11, 12 and 13; Appendix A.
* J.N. Ravelo, Especificación e Implementación de Tipos Abstractos de Datos, Universidad Simón
Bolívar, 2012, available at <http://www.ldc.usb.ve/˜jravelo/docencia/algoritmos/material>.
* J.N. Ravelo & K. Fernández, Tipos Algebraico-Libres, Universidad Simón Bolívar, 2012, available at <http://www.ldc.usb.ve/˜jravelo/docencia/algoritmos/material>.
* J.N. Ravelo & K. Fernández, Ordenamiento sobre Arreglos, Universidad Simón Bolívar, 2012, available at <http://www.ldc.usb.ve/˜jravelo/docencia/algoritmos/material>.
* N. Wirth, Algorithms + Data Structures = Programs, Prentice Hall, 1976. Chapters 1 and 4.
* Manual of the programming language used.

## Required to Complete

Laboratory Practices, Quizzes, Closed Workshops and Projects.

## Validity

From January 2015.
