# CI-2526 Discrete Structures II

## Credits

| USB Credits | ECTS |
|:-----------:|:----:|
|      4      |   8  |

## Hours

| Theory Hours Per Week | Practice Hours Per Week | Laboratory Hours Per Week | Total Hours (12 week Trimester) |
|:---------------------:|:-----------------------:|:-------------------------:|:-------------------------------:|
|           4           |            2            |             0             |                72               |

## Objectives

### General

Definition of basic abstract concepts in computer science. Apply demonstrative arguments within a precisely defined context.

### Specifics

* Knowledge of structures defined in abstract form.
* Knowledge of the concept of relationship, relational structures, and its application
* Basic knowledge of cardinality

## Topics

* Set Definition Axioms of extension, empty set, separation, union. Paradoxes Operations: intersection, union, difference and complement. Properties
* Families: Definition and operations Axiom set of parts or power set. Properties
* Cartesian product. Definition and Properties. Relations: Definition, operations and properties of operations. Domain, Rank and graph of a relationship. Inverse relationship. Left and right restrictions of a relationship. Reflective, symmetric, antisymmetric and transitive properties among others. Sequencing and composition of relationships and their Properties.
* Partial, total and topological order. Well-ordering principle.
* Induction. Axioms of Peano. Inductive definitions. Closing of Relationships definition, reflective, symmetric and transitive closures.
* Equivalence Relation. Definition and Properties. Definition of Partition and its Properties.
* Function: Definition, types, properties. Composition of functions and properties. Inverse function Reverse right, left.
* Definition of finite set, properties. Infinite sets, countable and non-countable sets.

## Literature

* Elementos de Teoría Axiomática de Conjuntos. Vicente Yriarte. USB
* Discrete Mathematics in Computer Science. Donald F. Stanat & David Mc Allister. Prentice Hall. 1977.
* A Logical Approach to Discrete Math. David Gries & Fred B. Schneider. Springer Verlag. 1993.

## Required to Complete

Three exams.

## Validity

From January 2011.
