# CI-2525 Discrete Structures I

## Credits

| USB Credits | ECTS |
|:-----------:|:----:|
|      4      |   8  |

## Hours

| Theory Hours Per Week | Practice Hours Per Week | Laboratory Hours Per Week | Total Hours (12 week Trimester) |
|:---------------------:|:-----------------------:|:-------------------------:|:-------------------------------:|
|           4           |            2            |             0             |                72               |

## Objectives

* Introduction of useful mathematical tools for modeling and analyzing discrete phenomena or processes.
* Introduction to a discrete theory analogous to differential and integral calculus.

## Topics

* 1st Class: Objectives of the combinatorics. Fundamental principles of counting. Interpretation of functions as a sequence and as assignments to boxes. Cardinality of all the functions of a set A to a set B (finite). Number of injective functions (applications of counting principles).
* 2nd Class: Application of fundamental counting principles: place objects of a set X in m boxes, objects in boxes must be ordered (discuss various methods). Strictly increasing tuples in the alphabet 1, ..., n, number of m-subsets of an n-set. Number of increasing m-words in an n-alphabet.
* 3rd Class: Number of ordered and generalized n-partitions of m (two methods). Consequences: Number of increasing and strictly increasing functions. Principles of inequality or Pigeon Hole.
* 4th Class: Binomial and multinomial coefficient. Properties Sums and products. Operations on sums.
* 5th Class: Binomial and multinomial theorem. Principle of inclusion-exclusion.
* 6th Class: Applications of inclusion-exclusion type: numbers of bijective functions and partitions of a set in m classes. Sets of objects that satisfy exactly certain properties. Derangements.
* 7th Class: Recurrence equations. Formulation Examples Direct Resolution and Combination methods.
* 8th Class: Linear recurrence equations with constant coefficients. Resolution Method.
* 9th Class: Resolution by generating functions. Equation and resolution to parentize an expression.
* 10th Class: Calculation of differences. Similarity with differential calculation. Differences of a polynomial.
* 11th Class: Properties of the operator difference. Factorial functions. Stirling numbers of the first order.
* 12th Class: Second order Stirling numbers. Combinatorial interpretation. Difference of special functions.
* 13th Class: Development in differences. Gregory-Newton's formula. Sum calculations. Similarity with the integral calculation. Operator sums. Properties Sums of special functions.
* 14th Class: Sums Calculation's Fundamental Theorem. Abel Transforms. Other methods for calculating series.
* 15th Class: Asymptotic Behavior. Comparison relationships. Notation O, o, Teta, Omega, equivalent asymptotes.
* 16th Class: Calculation on comparison relations.
* 17th Class: Comparison scales.
* 18th Class: Estimates and asymptotic representations.
* 19th Class: Practical calculation of the complexity of algorithms.

## Literature

* D. Knuth. Fundamental Algorithms. AddisonWesley. 1973.
* M. Spiegel. Theory and Problems of claculus of finite differences and Difference equations. Shaum’s Outline series. McGrawHill. 1971.
* C. Liu. Introduction to Combinatorial Mathematics. McGrawHill. 1968.
* C. Berge. Principles of Combinatorics. Academic Press. 1971.
* Jordan. Calculus of finite differnce equations.
* Grahan, Knuth, Patasnik. Concrete Mathematics. AddisonWesley. 1991.
* N. Xuong, Mathematiques Discretes. Dunod. 1992.

## Required to Complete

Two exams, two quizzes and homeworks.

## Validity

From 2011.
