# CI-2613 Algorithms and Structures III

## Credits

| USB Credits | ECTS |
|:-----------:|:----:|
|      3      |   6  |

## Hours

| Theory Hours Per Week | Practice Hours Per Week | Laboratory Hours Per Week | Total Hours (12 week Trimester) |
|:---------------------:|:-----------------------:|:-------------------------:|:-------------------------------:|
|           3           |            1            |             0             |                48               |

## Objectives

### General

At the end of the course, the student is expected to be able to concepts of Graph Theory in order to model and solve problems efficiently.

### Specifics

* Model problems using Graph Theory.
* Identify the algorithms that allow to solve efficiently the problems modeled with Graph Theory.
* Evaluate the different algorithms available to solve the problems presented.
* Calculate various types of routes and coverages in graphs, according to specific conditions.
* Infer from the routes and coverages calculated other interesting results from Graph Theory.
* Establish the possible modifications to be made to the classical algorithms to solve the problems presented.

## Topics

* Graphs: motivation, concept, characteristics, properties, types of graphs. (2 hours)
* Graph representation: lists of edges, adjacency matrices, incidence matrices, adjacency lists, incidence lists. Impact of the underlying structures in the implementation. (4 hours)
* Connectivity in graphs: paths, cycles, routes, reach, transitive closure, Roy Warshall algorithm, connected and strongly connected components, articulation points. (4 hours)
* Graph paths: general labeling model, general search model. General models instance: depth first search algorithm (DFS) and breadth first search algorithm (BFS). (4 hours)
* Route applications: calculation of connected components, determine if a graph is bipartite, calculation of strongly connected components, points of articulation and others. (4 hours)
* Minimum and maximum cost paths. Floyd-Warshall algorithm. Dijkstra's algorithm. Bellman's algorithm. (4 hours)
* Precedence graphs: leveling, topological ordering, minimum cost paths. (4 hours)
* Informed search. Heuristics and algorithm A*. (2 hours)
* Trees and Arborescences. Properties. (2 hours)
* Minimum Spanning tree: Prim's Algorithm. Kruskal's Algorithm. Data structures for disjoint sets. (4 hours)

## Literature

* Ortega, Maruja, Meza, Oscar. “Grafos y Algoritmos”. Equinoccio Editorial, USB. Caracas, 1993.
* Sedgewick, Robert and Wayne, Kevin. “Algorithms”, 4th edition. Addison-Wesley. 2011.
* Cormen, T.H., Leiserson, C.E., Rivest, R.L. and Stein, C., Introduction to Algorithms, The MIT Press, 3rd edition, 2009. Chapters 1, 2, 3 and 4; 6 and 7; 10, 11, 12 and 13; Appendix A.
* Brassard, Gilles and Bratley, Paul. “Fundamentals of Algorithmic”. Prentice Hall. 1995.
* Aho, Alfred, Hopcroft, John and Ullman, Jeffrey. “Estructuras de Datos y Algoritmos”. Addison-Wesley. 1983.
* Bondy, J.A. and Murty, U.S.R. “Graph Theory”, 3rd edition. Springer. 2008.
* Diestel, Reinhard. “Graph Theory”, 4th edition. Springer-Verlag. 2010.

## Required to Complete

Two exams.

## Validity

From January 2015.
