# CI-2691 Algorithms and Structures Laboratory I

## Credits

| USB Credits | ECTS |
|:-----------:|:----:|
|      2      |   4  |

## Hours

| Theory Hours Per Week | Practice Hours Per Week | Laboratory Hours Per Week | Total Hours (12 week Trimester) |
|:---------------------:|:-----------------------:|:-------------------------:|:-------------------------------:|
|           0           |            0            |             3             |                36               |

## Objectives

### General

At the end of the course, the student is expected to be able to implement a correct algorithmic solution to a simple computational problem, based on its formal specification, making use of an imperative language under the structured programming approach.

### Specifics

* Interpret an algorithm specified in the Guarded Command Language (GCL) formalism.
* Specify the inputs and outputs of a problem using the language of logic.
* Make the descending analysis of a computational problem.
* Conceive an algorithmic solution for a simple computational problem.
* Write algorithms using GCL formalism.
* Represent information with basic, ordinal, sequential and structured non-recursive data types.
* Design structured programs that include data structures and subprograms.
* Process data contained in text files.
* Encode in some imperative language an algorithm specified in GCL, following the standards of good programming style.
* Verify the assertions of a program and the status of the variables through actions inserted in the code to support the development process.
* Write technical reports on program development.
* Apply pair programming practices, sustained rhythm and development of test cases, from the agile development processes.

## Topics

* Familiarization with work environment. General structure of a program in an imperative language. Declaration of constants and variables. Basic Types (integer, character, real, boolean). Entry and exit instructions. Input and output specifications, precondition and postcondition. Comments. Code documentation. (3 hours)
* Ordinal types. Arithmetic and logical expressions, precedence. Assignment, null instruction and sequencing. Indentation. Code documentation. Writing intermediate assertions as logical expressions. (3 hours)
* Control structures: selection and iteration. Equivalences between iterative instructions. Code Documentation (3 hours)
* Arrays. Use of loops with arrays. Multidimensional Arrays. Nested Iterations. Structured type constructor. Definition of new types. Arrays of Structures. (3 Hours)
* Verification of the assertions and the state of the variables corresponding to the preconditions, postconditions, instructions of assignment, instructions of sequencing, instructions of selection, invariants and bounding function of an iteration, by means of actions inserted in the code. (3 hours).
* Descending analysis. Non-recursive subprograms. Parameters passing by value and by reference, and their correspondence with the input, output and input-output parameters in GCL. Reach of identifiers. (3 hours)
* Principles of agile development processes: pair programming practices, sustained rhythm and development of test cases. (3 Hours)
* Sequential files. (3 Hours)
* Recursion. (3 Hours)

## Literature

* Manual of the programming language used.
* Oscar Meza. Introducción a la Programación. 2000. Available at: <http://ldc.usb.ve/~meza/ci-2615/>
* Gries David. “The Science of Programming”. Springer.Verlag.1981. ISBN 0-387-96480-0. Pages 1-85 y 310-319
* Gries David, Schneider Fred. "A Logical Approach to Discrete Math". Springer-Verlag. 1993.
* Jesús Ravelo. Ejemplos de Especificación de Problemas Algorítmicos. 2009. Available at: <http://ldc.usb.ve/~jravelo/docencia/algoritmos/material/especs.pdf>

## Required to Complete

Laboratory Practices, Quizzes, Closed Workshops and Projects.

## Validity

From January 2015.
