# CI-2612 Algorithms and Structures II

## Credits

| USB Credits | ECTS |
|:-----------:|:----:|
|      3      |   6  |

## Hours

| Theory Hours Per Week | Practice Hours Per Week | Laboratory Hours Per Week | Total Hours (12 week Trimester) |
|:---------------------:|:-----------------------:|:-------------------------:|:-------------------------------:|
|           3           |            1            |             0             |                48               |

## Objectives

### General

At the end of the course, the student is expected to be able to design and implement an Abstract Data Type (ADT), apply classical algorithms and data structures in solving computational problems and analyze the complexity of simple algorithms.

### Specifics

* Interpret the behavior of an ADT in the model-based specification style.
* Formally specify an ADT using the style based models described by first-order logic and mathematical structures (sets, multi-sets, sequences, relationships and functions).
* Use data refining techniques that ensure the consistency of the models in the implementation of an ADT.
* Select data structures to implement an ADT using a time and resource efficiency criteria.
* Solve problems by using some ADTs (ADT Stack, ADT Queue, ADT Dictionary, among others) and classic algorithms (Search and Sorting algorithms).
* Represent information with recursive structured data types.
* Design structured programs that include data and recursive functions.
* Apply the basic notions of algorithm analysis in simple cases.

## Topics

* Abstract Data Type (ADT): Concept. Formal specifications with models. For example, the Dictionary. Abstract models of representation: sets, multisets, sequences, relationships and functions. Implementation: data refinement, concrete model, invariant coupling. Correctness of data refinement. Encapsulation and concealment. Modules and
lessons. (6 hours)
* Concrete Data Types: arrays, registers, references or pointers. Implementation of recursive types with single and double linked structures. Introduction to Hash tables. (4 hours)
* Free Algebraic Types: examples (expressions), definition of functions, demonstration of properties, programming primitives, programming of iterative and recursive examples. (4 hours)
* Concepts of Algorithm Complexity Analysis (asymptotic notation; recurrence management; Master Theorem). Application of these concepts in the analysis of classical algorithms (2 hours)
* Search and Sorting Algorithms: sequential search, binary search, insertion sorting, selection sorting, swap sorting (bubble sort), merge sorting (Mergesort), quick sorting (Quicksort), mound sorting (Heapsort). (4 hours)
* Trees. Binary Search Trees: definition, properties, search, insertion and deletion. Implementation. (6 hours)
* Recursion vs. Iteration. Examples on trees. Use of auxiliary structures (stack and queue) to implement iterative algorithms. (4 hours)

## Literature

* T.H. Cormen, C.E. Leiserson, R.L. Rivest & C. Stein, Introduction to Algorithms, The MIT Press, 3rd edition, 2009. Chapters 1, 2, 3 y 4; 6 y 7; 10, 11, 12 y 13; Appendix A.
* J.N. Ravelo, Especificación e Implementación de Tipos Abstractos de Datos, Universidad Simón Bolívar, 2012, available at <http://www.ldc.usb.ve/˜jravelo/docencia/algoritmos/material.>.
* J.N. Ravelo & K. Fernández, Tipos Algebraico-Libres, Universidad Simón Bolívar, 2012,
available at <http://www.ldc.usb.ve/˜jravelo/docencia/algoritmos/material.>.
* J.N. Ravelo & K. Fernández, Ordenamiento sobre Arreglos, Universidad Simón Bolívar, 2012,
available at <http://www.ldc.usb.ve/˜jravelo/docencia/algoritmos/material.>.
* N. Wirth, Algorithms + Data Structures = Programs, Prentice Hall, 1976. Chapters 1 y 4.
* B. Liskov con J. Guttag, Program Development in Java – Abstraction, Specification, and
Object-Oriented Design, Addison-Wesley, 2001. Chapters 1 al 10.
* R. Mitchell, Abstract Data Types and Modula-2, Prentice Hall, 1992. Chapters 1, 2 y 4.
* C. Morgan, Programming from Specifications, Prentice Hall, 2nd edition, 1994. Chapter 9.
* S. Thompson, Haskell – The Craft of Functional Programming, Addison-Wesley, 1996. Chapter 10.
* A.V. Aho, J.E. Hopcroft, J.D. Ullman, Data Structures and Algorithms, Addison-Wesley, 1983.

## Required to Complete

Two exams.

## Validity

From January 2015.
