# CI-2511 Symbolic Logic

## Credits

| USB Credits | ECTS |
|:-----------:|:----:|
|      4      |   8  |

## Hours

| Theory Hours Per Week | Practice Hours Per Week | Laboratory Hours Per Week | Total Hours (12 week Trimester) |
|:---------------------:|:-----------------------:|:-------------------------:|:-------------------------------:|
|           2           |            2            |             2             |                72               |

## Objectives

### General

Introduce the student to formal reasoning modeling systems.

### Specifics

* Develop in the student the ability to abstract a problem through its formulation in First Order Logic.
* Introduce the use of logic as a discipline of reasoning. 
* Introduce the student to inductive tests.

# Topics

* Motivation, history, formal systems. (2 hours)
* Inductive definitions.
* Recursive definitions.
* Inductive proofs. (4 hours)
* First order logic language: constants, relationships, functions and variables.
* Usual logical connectors: disjunction, conjunction, negation, conditional and biconditional. (2 hours)
* Modeling of propositional speeches: evaluations, truth table, feasibility, tautologies, logical consequence and logical equivalences. (6 hours)
* Formal system of propositional logic: rules of inference, syntactic derivations, theorems. (2 hours)
* Consistency, solidity and completeness of propositional logic. (2 hours)
* Variables and quantifiers: scope of quantifiers, variable ligatures, logical sentences. (2 hours)
* Modeling of predicative discourses (first order). (4 hours)
* Semantics of predicate logic: interpretations and models, feasibility, tautologies, logical consequence and logical equivalences. (6 hours)
* Consistency and completeness of predicate logic. (2 hours)
* Formal system of predicate logic: rules of inferences, syntactic derivations, theorems. (2 hours)
* Syntactic transformations of logical expressions: replacement by equivalence, normal forms (negative, disjunctive, conjunctive and pre-annexed), completeness of a set of formal systems connectors. (4 hours)

## Literature

* The Language of First Order Logic (Tarski World) from Barkwise.
* Guides "Introduction to Mathematical Logic" and "Introduction to First Order Logic".

## Valid

From September 1995.


