# CI-3825 Operating Systems I

## Credits

| USB Credits | ECTS |
|:-----------:|:----:|
|      5      |  10  |

## Hours

| Theory Hours Per Week | Practice Hours Per Week | Laboratory Hours Per Week | Total Hours (12 week Trimester) |
|:---------------------:|:-----------------------:|:-------------------------:|:-------------------------------:|
|           3           |            1            |             3             |                84               |

## Objectives

### Generals

Introduce the basic concepts of operating systems, with emphasis on multi-user systems.

### Specifics

* Behavior of a CPU through multiprogramming and concurrences with processes and threads. Policies and mechanisms for dispatching programs.
* Main memory behavior. Use of base and limit records. Management of virtual memory through paging and segmentation policies and mechanisms. Use of the Working Set.
* Secondary memory compartment. Use of logical and physical files systems. Name systems (directory). Basic scheme of File Protection.
* Managing Interlocking and Starvation.

## Topics

* Topic 1. Introduction: Structures of a computer system. Definition of operating systems. Historical perspective of operating systems. Components of an operating system.
* Topic 2. Structure of the Operating Systems: Basic structure. I/O structure. Structure of Direct Memory Access (DMA). Protection needs. System calls.
* Topic 3. Processes: Process definition. Process models. Context changes. Operations on processes. Cooperating processes. Threads.
* Topic 4. Process planning (scheduling): Scheduling queues. Scheduling levels. Scheduling structures. Scheduling algorithms.
* Topic 5. Process coordination: Cooperating processes. Relationship between processes. Concurrent processes. Threads. Race conditions, mutual exclusion and critical sections. Mechanisms of mutual exclusion and synchronization.
* Topic 6. Interlock (deadlock): System model. Deadlocks characterization. Deadlock prevention methods. Methods to avoid deadlock. Deadlock detection method.
* Topic 7. Main memory: Virtual address space and physical address space. Multiple fixed partitions. Multiple partitions of variable size. Pagination. Segmentation.
* Topic 8. Virtual Memory: Pagination. Segmentation. Page replacement. Thrashing. Working set.
* Topic 9. File systems: Files. Directories. Access protection. File implementation. Directory implementation. Efficiency and performance in file systems. Reliability in file systems.
* Topic 10. Secondary memory management: Disk structure, organization and addresses. Free space administration. Disk planning.
* Topic 11. Design of operating systems: monolithic, micro kernel, layered, virtual machines, object-oriented, client-server. Definition and use of upcalls.

## Literature

* Silberschatz A. Galvin P:B: Operating System Concepts. 4th Edition. Addison-Wesley Publishing Company. 1994.
* Tanenbaum A. & "Modern Operating Systems". Prentice-Hall. 1992.
* Tanenbaum A. & Woodhull. "Operating Systems: Desing and Implemetation". 2nd Edition. Prentice-Hall. 1998.
* Stalling W. "Operting Systems Internals and Desing Principles". 3rd Edition. Prentice-Hall. 1998.

## Required to Complete

Two Exams, two projects in C and a third project in either C or Bash.

## Validity

Nonspecified (Revised on January 2000).
