# CI-3715 Software Engineering

## Credits

| USB Credits | ECTS |
|:-----------:|:----:|
|      5      |  10  |

## Hours

| Theory Hours Per Week | Practice Hours Per Week | Laboratory Hours Per Week | Total Hours (12 week Trimester) |
|:---------------------:|:-----------------------:|:-------------------------:|:-------------------------------:|
|           3           |            1            |             3             |                84               |

## Objectives

Introduce the student to the problematic and medium-sized software development techniques representative of the disciplined approach associated with Software Engineering. Design and systems validation techniques will be emphasized, specially the ones that:

* Increase the productivity of the software developer;
* Allow to control the complexity inherent in medium-sized systems;
* Introduce the student to team development.

## Topics

* Introduction to software engineering: The development of medium-sized software, the need for disciplined teamwork, stages in the software life cycle, critical factors, definition and importance of SI. Object oriented software.
* Object-oriented modeling: Need for multiple models. Introduction to UML notation. UML history. UML diagrams.
* Problem statement, functional requirements and attributes of a software. The use case model: actors, use cases, scenarios, description of use cases, relationships between use cases, use case diagram.
* Class Diagrams: objects, classes, attributes, qualifiers, methods, aggregation, composition, inheritance and associations. Class Translation to Relational Scheme. Class Translation to Code.
* Interaction diagrams: Sequence diagrams of system events and Communication diagrams. Contracts. Translation of Communication Diagrams to Code.
* Layer architecture: presentation, application, storage. Design principles: expertise, coupling and cohesion. The use of design patterns as an observer (model-view-controller, publish-subscribe), iterator, strategy, proxy, decorator, abstract and composite factory.
* Informal tests: Definition. Psychological barriers. Planning and monitoring of the testing process based on the registration of faults and defects. Unit tests. Integration testing. System tests

## Literature

* "Object-Oriented Software Engineering: Using UML, Patterns and Java". Bernd Bruegge, and Allen H. Dutoit. Prentice Hall. 3rd Edition.
* "Applying UML and Patterns: An Introduction to Object-Oriented, Analysis and Design and Iterative Development”. Craig Larman. Prentice Hall. 3rd Edition.

## Required to Complete

Exams, Quizzes, Homeworks, Presentations and Medium Sized Development Project.

## Validity

From 2011.
