# CI-3661 Languajes Workshop I

## Credits

| USB Credits | ECTS |
|:-----------:|:----:|
|      2      |   4  |

## Hours

| Theory Hours Per Week | Practice Hours Per Week | Laboratory Hours Per Week | Total Hours (12 week Trimester) |
|:---------------------:|:-----------------------:|:-------------------------:|:-------------------------------:|
|           0           |            0            |             3             |                36               |

## Objectives

### General

Study of the fundamental characteristics of high-level languages and the programming paradigms that they implement, complementing the course CI-3641 Programming Languajes in the practical level.

### Specifics

* Study of programming languages and the main computer science paradigms.
* Familiarization with the basic notions of the imperative programming model.
* Study of the programming paradigm with objects and the alternatives offered by high-level languages for the implementation of abstract types.
* Familiarization with the basic concepts and techniques of concurrent programming.
* Knowledge of the alternatives proposed by the functional and logical paradigms.
* Ability to compare between different languages and their adequacy to solve specific problems.
* Establishment of parameters for comparing programming languages.

## Topics

* Introduction. Historical introduction. Syntax and semantics. High, medium and low level languages. General purpose and specific purpose languages. Programming paradigms.
* Imperative Programming. Von Neumann architecture. Variables and memory states. Control flow.
* Variables and memory states. Type, value, scope and lifetime of a variable. Local and global variables. Scope and context: Static and dynamic model. Types of parameter passing. Types of abstract data and programming with objects. Evolution of the type concept. Encapsulation and privacy. Objects and classes. Generality,
operator overload and polymorphism. Reusability. Dynamic message passing model.
* Control flow. General Transfers. Hierarchies of control structures. Transformations between models. Structured programming. Transfers between units: subroutines, corroutines, concurrent units. Concurrent Programming Processes and interaction between processes. Concurrence and non determinism. Explicit and implicit parallelism. Mechanism of synchronization and mutual exclusion. "Deadlocks." Synchronization between processes that share memory. Communicating processes.
* Logic Programming. Declarative or non-procedural languages. Logical languages and theorem proving. Knowledge bases. Inference mechanism.
* Functional Programming. Essential features. Application languages: objects, functions and functional forms. Functional elements of traditional languages. Partially functional languages.
* Compared languages. Comparison between languages. Implicit and explicit parallelism in non-imperative models. Multiparadigmic languages. Elements of analysis and design of programming languages.

## Literature

* Andrews, G.R. y Scheneider, F.B.: “Concepts and Notations for Concurrent programming”, Computing Surverys, Vol. 15, No. 1, March 1983, pp. 340.
* BenAri, M.: Principles of Concurrent Programming, Second Edition. John & Sons. 1987.
* Ghezzi, C. y Jazayeri, M.: Programming Language Concepts, Second Edition, John Wiley & Sons. 1987.
* Ledgard, H.F. y Marcotty, M.: “A Generalogy of Control Structures”, CACM, Vol. 18, No. 11, November 1975, pp. 629-639.

## Required to Complete

Three examns and three projects.

## Validity

From September 1989.
