# CI-3725 Translators and Interpreters

## Credits

| USB Credits | ECTS |
|:-----------:|:----:|
|      5      |  10  |

## Hours

| Theory Hours Per Week | Practice Hours Per Week | Laboratory Hours Per Week | Total Hours (12 week Trimester) |
|:---------------------:|:-----------------------:|:-------------------------:|:-------------------------------:|
|           3           |            1            |             3             |                84               |

## Objectives

### Generals

* Introduction to the theoretical principles that underpin the construction of translators and interpreters.
* Study of regular languages and their properties.
* Study of context-free languages and their properties.
* Construction of simple Top-Down and Bottom-Up parsers.
* Introduction to translation schemes directed by syntax.

### Specifics

* Know the Chomsky hierarchy and its implications in language recognition.
* Have familiarity with grammars and automatons, and know their importance in the definition of languages and construction of parsers.
* Know how to transform a specification of a language into another equivalent language, within the framework of the equivalence seen in the course.
* Have familiarity with the concept of translation directed by syntax and its importance in the construction of translators and interpreters.

## Topics

* Introduction.
  * Languages and virtual machines.
* Regular languages.
  * Regular expressions.
  * Right linear grammar.
  * Finite automata.
  * Equivalence results.
  * Properties of regular languages.
  * Applications: Lexicographic analysis, pattern matching.
* Context-free languages.
  * Derivation tree (concrete syntax tree).
  * Elimination of left recursion.
  * LL Grammar (definition).
  * LL Grammar (1).
  * Construction of Top-Down parsers based on LL grammars (1).
  * LR Grammar (definition).
  * LR Grammar (0).
  * Construction of Bottom-up parsers based on LR grammars (0).
* Translation directed by syntax.
  * Introduction to translation directed by syntax.
  * Construction of the abstract tree.

## Literature

* Backhouse. Syntax of Programming Lenguages, Theory and Practice.
* Aho Ullman. The Theory of Parsing Translation and Compiling. Vol. I. 1972.

## Required to Complete

Three Exams and a Simple Parser for an example language created by the professor, in one the allowed languages.

## Validity

From September 1995 (Revised on February 2003).
