# CI-3815 Computer Organization

## Credits

| USB Credits | ECTS |
|:-----------:|:----:|
|      5      |  10  |

## Hours

| Theory Hours Per Week | Practice Hours Per Week | Laboratory Hours Per Week | Total Hours (12 week Trimester) |
|:---------------------:|:-----------------------:|:-------------------------:|:-------------------------------:|
|           4           |            2            |             0             |                72               |

## Objectives

### Generals

The main objective of the course is for the student to understand the concepts of real machine and virtual machine. In addition, to obtain basic knowledge about the key components of a computer, that is, the central processing unit, memory hierarchy, I/O devices and interconnection mechanisms.

### Specifics

* Know the basic components of a computer: CPU, memory and peripheral devices.
* Introduce concepts related to the basic components of modern architectures, such as pipelines and multiprocessors.
* Understand the relationship between the concept of a machine and the language that it interprets.
* Know the type of instructions offered at the machine level.
* Study different design criteria of conventional machine level instruction format.
* Study format of representation in memory of integers, characters and reals.
* Understand the difference between the level of an assembly language and the level of a conventional machine language, and also know how to translate written programs into assembly languages and into machine languages.
* Understand how the control operation of peripheral devices is carried out.

## Topics

* Basic structure of a computer.
* Hierarchy of memories and I/O devices.
* Set and format of instructions.
* Numerical and character systems. Binary representation of integers in two's complement, octal and hexadecimal. Representation of characters and numbers in floating point.
* Management of data structures in an assembly language.
* Subroutines Conventions and parameter passing.
* Mechanisms of interruption handling.

## Literature

* William Stallings. Computer Organization and Architecture: Designing for performance. Prentice-Hall.
* J. Hennessy and D. Patterson. Computer Organization and Desing. The Hardware and Software Interface. Morgan Kaufmann.
* Tanenbaum S. Andrew. Structured Computer Organization. Tercera Edición. Prentice-Hall.

## Required to Complete

Two Exams and Two projects in an assembly language.

## Validity

Nonspecified.
