# CI-3311 Database Systems I

## Credits

| USB Credits | ECTS |
|:-----------:|:----:|
|      3      |   6  |

## Hours

| Theory Hours Per Week | Practice Hours Per Week | Laboratory Hours Per Week | Total Hours (12 week Trimester) |
|:---------------------:|:-----------------------:|:-------------------------:|:-------------------------------:|
|           3           |            0            |             0             |                36               |

## Objectives

### General

* Study the concepts of Database (DB) Theory that allow data modeling.
* Study the relational model and its associated languages.
* Introduce what are the different tools and functions of a database manager.

### Specifics

* Study the concept of databases, database manager, database systems and the differences that exist between them and the file managers.
* Model a DB with the Entity Relationship model and the Extended Entity Relationship model.
* Master the basics of conceptual data modeling.
* Study the concepts of Functional Dependency and Normalization. Algorithms and heuristics to obtain normal forms.
* Study the relational model and its main data manipulation languages.
* Understand the basic notions of the catalog, concurrency management and recovery, integrity and security.

## Topics

* Introduction. What is data, what is information and what is knowledge. Data processing, information and knowledge system. File systems. (2 hours)
* Basic concepts of databases. Databases Database Managers. (2 hours)
* Differences between DB Managers and File Managers.
* ER modeling. (3 hours)
* EER modeling. (2 hours)
* Relational model. Relational Model Structures. Main features. (1 hour)
* ER and EER translation to the Relational Model. (2 hour)
* Normalization. What is a normalization? Why is it necessary. Functional Dependency. (4 hours)
* Different normal forms: 1FN, 2FN, 3FN, BCNF. How to achieve different normal forms. Manipulation Languages of the Relational Model. Algebra. How to Calculate it. SQL. (9 hours)
* Network and Hierarchical Models. (2 hours)
* Relational Database Management System (RDBMS) Structure. What is a data dictionary. Elements of a data dictionary. Data catalog. (2 hours)
* Concurrence. Serialization interference problems. Deadlock locks. (3 hours)
* Recovery, integrity and security. What is a recovery? Commit, Rollback transactions. Recovery algorithms Integrity rules Security. (5 hours)
* Advanced DBs (2 hours).

## Literature

* Elsmari, Navathe. Fundamentals of Database Systems. Benjamin/Cummings, 1989. Chapters 1, 2, 3, 6, 7, 8, 13, 14, 17, 19, 20, 21, 22.
* Jeffrey D. Ullman. Principles of Database Systems. Vol. 1, Computer Science Press, 1988.
* Batini, Ceri, Navathe. Conceptual Database Design. Chapter 5.

## Required to Complete

Three examns.

## Validity

From September 1995.
