# CI-3391 Database Workshop I

## Credits

| USB Credits | ECTS |
|:-----------:|:----:|
|      2      |   4  |

## Hours

| Theory Hours Per Week | Practice Hours Per Week | Laboratory Hours Per Week | Total Hours (12 week Trimester) |
|:---------------------:|:-----------------------:|:-------------------------:|:-------------------------------:|
|           0           |            0            |             3             |                36               |

## Objectives

### General

At the end of the course, the student must be able to apply the concepts of database design.

### Specifics

* Conceptual modeling of a database using the ER model and extensions proposed to it.
* Logical design of databases in the relational model.
* Database implementation design in an Relational Database Management System (RDBMS).
* Specification of requirements in SQL and / or procedural extensions of this language.
* Development of client / server applications using SQL and client communication libraries / Database Management System (DBMS).

## Topics

* Conceptual modeling using the ER model.
* Conceptual modeling using proposed extensions to the ER model.
* Translation of ER schemes extended to relational schemes.
* Normalization of relational schemes.
* SQL Data Definition / Manipulation Language.
* SQL procedural extensions (depends on the DBMS selected for the course).
* Use of client / server libraries (depends on the DBMS used).

## Literature

* Elsmari and Navathe S. “Fundamentals of Database Systems”. Addison-Wesley. Third edition. The Benjamin/Cumming Publishing Company. 1990
* Ullmann, J. “Principles of Knowledge and Database Systems”. Computer Science Press, 1998
* Manuals of the RDBMS used in the course.

## Required to Complete

Two examns, Projects and Homework.

## Validity

From January 1995.
