# CI-4835 Computer Networks I

## Credits

| USB Credits | ECTS |
|:-----------:|:----:|
|      5      |  10  |

## Hours

| Theory Hours Per Week | Practice Hours Per Week | Laboratory Hours Per Week | Total Hours (12 week Trimester) |
|:---------------------:|:-----------------------:|:-------------------------:|:-------------------------------:|
|           3           |            1            |             3             |                84               |

## Objective

At the end of the course, students will have a basic knowledge about the notion of communication protocols, the software structure / hardware of local networks, the main functions of the software layers in the TCP / IP model and some network programming models, especially the client-server model.

## Topics

* Topic 1: Basic concepts. Internet. Local networks, wide area, etc. Protocols of use and implementation of services. Network software structuring by layers. TCP / IP and OSI models. Question-answer based protocols. Network services.
* Topic 2: Introduction to the Internet (oredesIP). Machine identifiers: "physical" address and IP address. IP address space: domains and machines. Nemonic names: DNS service. Association of the IP number with the DNS name.
* Topic 3: Introduction to the transport layer. Networking programming interface. Sockets: pair of pairs (IP address, port).
* Topic 4: Standard protocol case studies on transport layers, such as RFC822, POP, HTTP.
* Topic 5: Other network programming models. RPC.
* Topic 6: Components of an IP network. Local networks. Broadcast networks, point-to-point networks. Elements to build a local network. Transmission media and properties. Devices: modems, switches, hubs.
* Topic 7: Control and management of data exchange over a link. Frames and frame synchronization. Flow control at link level. Reliable transmission. Error control. Error detection.
* Topic 8: IP in detail. Package format. Switching, fragmentation and reassembly. Introduction to routing. Algorithms of distance vector and link state.
* Topic 9: UDP and TCP. Segment format. Protocols Induction to flow control and congestion control.
* Topic 10: Induction of safety aspects. Encryption. Authentication.

## Literature

* Petterson, L. Y Davie, B. "Computer Networks: A Systems Approach", Morgan Kaufmann Publishers, Inc, 1996.
* Tanembaum, A. “Computer Networks”, Third Edition, Prentice Hall, 1996.

## Required to Complete

Exams and two projects.

## Validity

Nonspecified.
