# CI-5437 Artificial Intelligence I

## Credits

| USB Credits | ECTS |
|:-----------:|:----:|
|      4      |   8  |

## Hours

| Theory Hours Per Week | Practice Hours Per Week | Laboratory Hours Per Week | Total Hours (12 week Trimester) |
|:---------------------:|:-----------------------:|:-------------------------:|:-------------------------------:|
|           4           |            2            |             0             |                72               |

## Objective

Consistent, advanced and updated introduction to Artificial Intelligence with emphasis on the fundamentals and use of AI techniques for modeling and problem solving.

## Topics

* Search Problems; State Models:
  * Blind Search (Search in Depth, Search in Amplitude, Iterative Deepening).
  * Heuristic Search: Hill-Climbing, A *, IDA *, Branch & Bound.
  * Properties: Completeness, Optimality, Complexity in Time and Space.
  * Suboptimal algorithms: WA *, WIDA *, LDS,...
  * Extensions: Transposition tables, Pattern Databases.
  * Origin and Design of Heuristic Functions; Heuristics as Functions.
  * Optimal Cost of Simplified Problems.
  * Applications: Games (Sokoban, 15-puzzle, Rubik); TSP,...
* Planning:
  * Planning as general problem solving.
  * Representation languages to model actions and objectives: Strips, ADL, Functional Strips.
  * Planning Algorithms: Linear and non-linear planning, planning as a heuristic search, Graphplan, planning as 'model checking'.
* Representation of Knowledge and Logic:
  * Propositional Logic: Language, Semantics and Test Theory. Normal Forms and Normal Conjunctive Form: Clauses.
  * SAT: The Problem of Satisfactability of a set of Clauses; Algorithms: Davis & Putnam, GSAT.
  * Logic for problem solving: Planning as SAT, Scheduling as SAT, Diagnosis as SAT.
  * First Order Logic: Language and Semantics.
  * Horn clauses; Resolution.
  * Logic Programming.
  * Logic Control Representation: Golog, Tlplan.

## Literature

* Teacher notes.
* Papers delivered in class.
* Reference (but not text): Russell and Norvig; Artificial Intelligence: A Modern Approach, Prentice Hall, 1995.
* Pointers on course page.

## Required to Complete

One final exam, three projects about: Search, one Game, SAT.

## Validity

From January 1998.
