# CI-5438 Artificial Intelligence II

## Credits

| USB Credits | ECTS |
|:-----------:|:----:|
|      4      |   8  |

## Hours

| Theory Hours Per Week | Practice Hours Per Week | Laboratory Hours Per Week | Total Hours (12 week Trimester) |
|:---------------------:|:-----------------------:|:-------------------------:|:-------------------------------:|
|           4           |            2            |             0             |                72               |

## Objective

Extension of the fundamental ideas in Artificial Intelligence 1 (CI-5437) to deal with problems involving uncertainty and partial observability.

## Topics

* Simple Decision Problems:
  * Probability Theory; Semantics and Axioms.
  * Bayes Rule: Intuition and Use.
  * Bayesian Networks: Representation and Inference Algorithms.
  * Theory of Utilities; Axioms.
  * Decision Trees.
  * Influence Diagrams: Representation and Algorithms.
* Sequential Decision Problems with Full Observability:
  * Markov chains.
  * Markovian Decision Processes (MDPs).
  * Algorithms: Dynamic programming (value iteration and policy iteration).
  * The Dimensionality Problem.
  * Dynamic Real-Time Programming (RTDP).
  * Resolution of MDPs by trial and error methods: reinforcement learning.
* Sequential Decision Problems with Observability with Partial Observability:
  * Partially Observable Markovian Decision Processes (POMDPs).
  * Dynamics of belief states, sensor modeling.
  * Problem Modeling in the framework of POMDPs.
  * POMDPs Resolution: RTDP.
* Approximate Dynamic Programming:
  * Linear approximation of the value function.
  * Non-linear approximations of the value function: Neural Networks.
* High Level Languages for Modeling MDPs and POMDPs.
* Applications:
  * Backgammon, Manufacturing Processes, Elevator Control,...

## Literature

* Teacher notes.
* Papers delivered in class.
* Pearl; Probabilistic Reasoning in Intelligent Systems, Morgan Kaufmann, 1989.
* Bertsekas and Tsitsiklis, Neuro-Dynamic Programming, Athena, 1996.
* Barto and Sutton: Introduction to Reinforcement Learning, MIT Press, 1997.
* Links on course page.

## Required to Complete

Three Projects.

## Validity

From January 1998.
