# CI-5651 Algorithm Design I

## Credits

| USB Credits | ECTS |
|:-----------:|:----:|
|      4      |   8  |

## Hours

| Theory Hours Per Week | Practice Hours Per Week | Laboratory Hours Per Week | Total Hours (12 week Trimester) |
|:---------------------:|:-----------------------:|:-------------------------:|:-------------------------------:|
|           4           |            2            |             0             |                72               |

## Topics

* Asymptotic notation. (B)
* Algorithm analysis. Analysis of the worst case, average case and amortized analysis. Examples of calculation of time complexity. Verification of the correctness of algorithms. (B)
* Advanced data structures. (B, C)
* Greedy Algorithms. Minimum spanning tree. Implementation with connected components. The definition of Matroid and its relationship with Greedy algorithms. Shortest path, the knapsack problem, planning. (B, L)
* Divide and Conquer: multiplication of large integers. Binary Search. Merge Sort. Quicksort. Search for the median. Matrix multiplication. (B)
* Dynamic Programming. Binomial coefficient. World Championship. The knapsack problem. Shortest path. Chained multiplication of matrices. Functions using memory. (B)
* Routes in graphs: DFS, BFS. Enumeration techniques: Backtracking and Branch and Bound (B, S)
* Maximum flow in networks. (L, C)
* Maximum Matching in Bipartite Graphs. (S, L)
* String Matching. (S, C)
* Geometric Algorithms. (S, C)
* Randomized Numerical Algorithms. (B)
* Heuristics and Approximate Algorithms. (B)
* Parallel algorithms. (B, C)
* Turing machines. Churh-Turing thesis. (M)
* Computational complexity theory. (M, C)

## Literature

* (B) Brassard, G; Bratley, P. Fundamentals of Algorithmics. Prentice Hall. 1997.
* (S) Sedgewick, R. Algorithms in C\*\*. Addison-Wesley. 1992.
* (L) Lawler, E. Combinatorial Optimization, Networks and Matroids. Holt, Rinehart and Winston. 1976.
* (C) Cormen, T; Leirserson, C; Rivest, R. Introduction to Algorithms. McGraw Hill. 1998.
* (M) Sipser, M. Introduction to the Theory of Computation. PWS Publishing Company. 1997.