# CI-2611 Algorithms and Structures I

## Credits

| USB Credits | ECTS |
|:-----------:|:----:|
|      3      |   6  |

## Hours

| Theory Hours Per Week | Practice Hours Per Week | Laboratory Hours Per Week | Total Hours (12 week Trimester) |
|:---------------------:|:-----------------------:|:-------------------------:|:-------------------------------:|
|           3           |            1            |             0             |                48               |

## Objectives

### General

At the end of the course, the student is qualified to specify formally a simple computational problem and design a correct algorithmic solution under the approach of structured programming and descending analysis.

### Specifics

* Interpret an algorithm specified in the Guarded Command Language (GCL) formalism.
* Specify the inputs and outputs of a problem using the language of logic.
* Make the descending analysis of a computational problem.
* Conceive an algorithmic solution for a simple computational problem.
* Write algorithms using GCL formalism.
* Represent information with basic, enumerated, sequential and structured non-recursive data types.
* Develop algorithms that include data and functions from a specification.
* Formally verify that an algorithm is correct.

## Topics

* Definition of Algorithm. Specification, Programming and Correction of programs. (2 hours)
* Notion of Sets, Sequence and Aggregation Functions (sum, production, maximum, minimum, count). Notion of constant and variable. Basic Types (integer, character, real, boolean). Input and output specifications, precondition and postcondition. (4 hours)
* General structure of a program in GCL. Ordinal types. Arithmetic and logical expressions, precedence. Assignment, null instruction (skip) and sequencing. (2 hours)
* Control structures: selection and iteration (2 Hours)
* Arrays. Using iteration with arrays. Multidimensional Arrys Nested Iterations (2 hours)
* Program correction: Hoare triples, weakest precondition, general rules, assignment, skip, sequencing and selection (2 Hours).
* Correction of programs: invariants, bounding functions, invariance theorem, iteration rules (2 Hours).
* Program correction: intuitive search for invariants. (2 hours)
* Descending Analysis. Subprograms (functions and procedures). Parameters of passing. (2 hours)
* Recursion: Recursive definitions, calls to recursive subprograms. Tail Recursion. (4 hours)
* Correction of programs: Techniques for invariant derivation: elimination of a predicate from a conjunction, replacement of constants by variables, strengthening of invariants. (4 hours)
* Correction of programs: procedure call rule, function call rule, array modification rule, recursive call rule. (2 hours)

## Literature

* Oscar Meza. Introducción a la Programación. 2000. Available at: <http://ldc.usb.ve/~meza/ci-2615/>
* Kaldewaij Anne. “Programming: the derivation of algorithms”. Prentice Hall. 1990. ISBN- 0-13-204108-1. Chapters 1, 2, 3 y 4.
* Gries David. “The Science of Programming”. Springer.Verlag.1981. ISBN 0-387-96480-0. Pages 1-85 and 310-319.
* Gries David, Schneider Fred. "A Logical Approach to Discrete Math". Springer-Verlag. 1993.
* Jesús Ravelo. Ejemplos de Especificación de Problemas Algorítmicos. 2009. Available at: <http://ldc.usb.ve/~jravelo/docencia/algoritmos/material/especs.pdf>

## Required to Complete

Three exams and homework.

## Validity

From January 2015.
