# EP-4793 Mini Software Development Project

## Credits

| USB Credits | ECTS |
|:-----------:|:----:|
|      8      |  16  |

## Hours

| Theory Hours Per Week | Practice Hours Per Week | Laboratory Hours Per Week | Total Hours (12 week Trimester) |
|:---------------------:|:-----------------------:|:-------------------------:|:-------------------------------:|
|           3           |            0            |            12             |               180               |

## Objectives

### General

This course aims to develop competencies in students to develop a software project, with a part-time dedication, during a trimester. In the development of the mini software development project, the student will have the opportunity to carry out activities of the various phases of the software development cycle, in accordance with a work plan proposed by a USB teacher. The student will cover some of the phases of development, not necessarily all.

### Specifics

* Establish a strategic planning of the processes related to the development of a software project.
* Demonstrate in the professional practice of the mini software development project, the fundamental aspects around the conceptual, procedural and attitudinal competencies that a student must possess at the level of training that the software development process contemplates.
* Systematically systematize the professional experience that constitutes the software development process with the fundamental guidelines established by the Teaching Coordination of the career.

## Topics

The Director of the Mini Project of Development of Sotfware will be a professor of the USB who must write a plan of the work to be done, as complete as a long internship plan, but whose development occurs throughout the 12 weeks of a period of the USB.

The work plan must include a general objective (what is the product to be built), specific objectives (how the general objective is subdivided into smaller objectives in order to achieve the general one) and the plan of activities to be carried out to achieve the objectives. It must also be specified for how many students the Mini Software Development Project is defined and what are the responsibilities of each student, if it is offered for more than one student. Likewise, it must be specified if the student must meet additional requirements to the requirements to pursue the Mini Software Development Project, for example, having passed a specialization chain or a particular subject may be additional requirements.

The Teaching Coordination of the career must approve the work plan of the Mini Software Development project before the student can take it. And also verify that the student meets the requirements to take it. The follow-up of the work will be in charge of the Director of the Mini Project of Development of Sotfware and will be subject to the evaluation standards of the Mini Software Development projects determined by the Coordination, who is the unit in charge of planning, supervising, advising and monitor compliance with the Mini Software Development Project.

## Literature

According to the work plan and the area of application.

## Required to Complete

The Project must be evaluated by two Jurors selected by the Coordination.

## Validity

From April 2017.
