# CO-3211 Numerical Analysis for Engineers

## Credits

| USB Credits | ECTS |
|:-----------:|:----:|
|      4      |   8  |

## Hours

| Theory Hours Per Week | Practice Hours Per Week | Laboratory Hours Per Week | Total Hours (12 week Trimester) |
|:---------------------:|:-----------------------:|:-------------------------:|:-------------------------------:|
|           4           |            3            |             0             |                84               |

## Topics

* Problem of finite precision. Absolute and relative error. Significant digits. Cancellation. Propagation of errors.
* Matrix Algebra Review. Positive orthogonal and Positive-definite matrices; vector and matrix norms; Cauchy-Schwarz inequality; eigenvalues and eigenvectors.
* Matrix factorizations. LU factorization with and without pivot. Cholesky factorization in the positive symmetric and definite case. QR factorization using Householder transforms. Operations count. Special cases for matrices with special structures.
* Linear systems solution. Direct methods based on the previous factorizations. Conditioning. Special case: linear minimum squares. Iterative stationary methods (briefly), examples: Jacobi, Gauss-Seidel, SOR. Iterative non-stationary methods in the symmetric and definite positive case: The Cauchy method, and the conjugate gradient method. Convergence properties.
* Interpolation techniques. Interpolation polynomials: Lagrange polynomial, Newton's formula (divided differences), Hermite interpolation, error analysis, Chebyshev nodes. Interpolation Spline Linear and natural cubic spline.

## Literature

* K. Atkinson. An Introduction to Numerical Analysis, 2nd Ed. John Wiley, N.Y., 1989. [QA297 A84 1989]
* D. Kincaid y W. Cheney. Numerical Analysis: Mathematics of Scientific Computing, 3rd Ed. Brooks/Cole, 2002. [QA297 K5635]
* M.T. Heath. Scientific Computing, 2nd Ed. McGraw-Hill, 2002. [Q183.9 H4 2002]
* N. J. Higham. Accuracy and Stability of Numerical Algorithms. SIAM, 1996. [QA297 H53]

## Required to Complete

Three examns and Laboratory Projects.

## Validity

From July 2012.
