# CO-3121 Fundamentals of Probability for Engineers

## Credits

| USB Credits | ECTS |
|:-----------:|:----:|
|      3      |   6  |

## Hours

| Theory Hours Per Week | Practice Hours Per Week | Laboratory Hours Per Week | Total Hours (12 week Trimester) |
|:---------------------:|:-----------------------:|:-------------------------:|:-------------------------------:|
|           4           |            2            |             0             |                72               |

## Objectives

* The purpose of this course is to provide the student with the basic knowledge of probabilities, discrete and continuous random variables, as well as the applications of the Large Number Theorems.
* Prepare students for further specialized studies, both in a mathematical discipline and in any of the sciences that require good probabilistic foundations.

## Topics

* Motivation. Probability models. Operations with Sets. Finite sample spaces. Properties of the probabilities and principle of Inclusion-Exclusion.
* Counting. Conditional Probability. Independent Events. Total Probability Formula. Bayes theorem. Continuity of the Probabilities.
* Random variables. Distribution of a random variable. Random discrete variables. Main examples.
* Poisson distribution. Continuous Distributions. Main examples. Cumulative distribution function and properties. Mixed distributions.
* One-dimensional variable changes. Joint Distributions. Joint probability function. Joint density.
* Marginal and conditional distributions. Independence of random variables.
* Change of multidimensional variables. Convolution of distributions.
* Expected value and variance. Properties, interpretation and applications.
* Covariance and correlation. Properties and interpretation. Probability generating function. Applications.
* Convergence in probability. Weak law of large numbers. Central Limit Theorem. Applications.

## Literature

The sections refer to the text of Evans and Rosenthal, "Probability and Statistics, The Science of Uncertainty" (Reverté, 2005). Support texts: First we recommend the Walpole, Myers, Ye, "Probability and Statistics for Engineering and Science", 8th edition (Pearson). Also the following two are very close to our program: Wackerly, Mendenhall and Scheaffer, "Probability and Mathematical Statistics", 6th edition. (Thomson) and Meyer, P L. "Probability and Statistical Applications". Inter-American Educational Fund, 1973.

## Required to Complete

Three examns, Weekly Laboratories and Projects.

## Validity

From October 2007.
