# CO-3221 Statistics for Engineers

## Credits

| USB Credits | ECTS |
|:-----------:|:----:|
|      4      |   8  |

## Hours

| Theory Hours Per Week | Practice Hours Per Week | Laboratory Hours Per Week | Total Hours (12 week Trimester) |
|:---------------------:|:-----------------------:|:-------------------------:|:-------------------------------:|
|           4           |            1            |             1             |                72               |

## Objectives

### Generals

* This subject is intended to provide the student with the knowledge about basic tools developed in the field of Statistics and its application in practical problems.
* Simple statistical models will be used to motivate the development of some fundamental aspects of inference and hypothesis testing. Theoretical developments will be motivated with applications and models.

### Specifics

* Learn to build graphs and statistical measurements to treat data sets and obtain from them visual and numerical information about the phenomenon or problem of interest.
* Know and apply the basic statistical tools to measure, compare and contrast definite assumptions about the phenomenon or problem of interest.
* Interpret the information provided by the results of the measurements, comparisons or contrasts obtained through basic statistical tools, to make decisions that involve the phenomenon or problem of interest.
* Write reports that present in a clear and structured way the information, results and interpretation obtained through the use of basic statistical tools.

## Topics

* Objectives of Statistics. Descriptive Statistics: Mean and sample variance, median and percentiles (quantiles), histograms, box diagrams. Estimation: Population parameters and estimators. Examples Goodness of an estimator: Bias, variance and EMC. Common point estimators and their properties. Confidence (probabilistic) of an estimator. Duration 1 week.
* Confidence intervals. Pivot Method. Confidence intervals for the mean, difference of means and variance in the normal case. Normal approximation for large samples. Relationship with sample size. Duration 1 week.
* Relative efficiency of estimators. Consistency. Method of the moments. Estimate by the Maximum Likelihood Method. Examples and asymptotic properties. Duration 1 week.
* Hypothesis tests. Test statistic, rejection region, Type I and Type II errors. Examples. Normal approximation for large samples. Probability of type II errors and sample size. Relationship between hypothesis tests and confidence intervals. p-values. Hypothesis tests for the mean and difference of means for normal data. Hypothesis tests for the variance of normal data. Neyman-Pearson lemma and likelihood ratio tests. Resampling and a non-parametric test for the difference of means. Duration 2½ weeks.
* Linear models. Adjustment for least squares in simple linear regression. Inference regarding ith-Beta’s. Inference regarding linear combinations of the ith-Beta’s. Prediction of Y(x). Correlation. Multiple linear regression. Adjustment and inferences about the parameters and their linear combinations. Prediction of Y(x) in multiple linear regression. Hypothesis tests on the parameters. Resampling and non-parametric inference about ith-Beta’s in simple linear regression. Duration 2½ weeks.
* Analysis of Variance: Motivation and procedure in the case of a factor (comparison of two means or more than two means). ANOVA table. Statistical model, additivity of the sums of squares and estimation in the design of a factor. Duration 1 week.
* Non-parametric methods for paired samples: Sign test and sign ranges test. Wilcoxon and Mann-Whitney statistics for the problem of two unpaired samples. Duration 2 weeks.

## Literature

* Pérez, María Eglée: "Notes for the CO-3311 course".
* Wackerly, Mendenhall and Scheaffer, Mathematical Statistics with applications.
* Peña, Daniel: "Statistics, Models and Methods, Vol. I and II", Editorial Alliance, Madrid.
* Montgomery and Runger: "Probability and Statistics applied to Engineering", McGraw-Hill.
* Walpole, Myers, Myers: "Probability and Statistics for Engineers". Prentice-Hall.

## Required to Complete

Two examns and two Projects.

## Validity

From January 2007.
