# CO-6612 Introduction to Artificial Neural Networks and their applications

## Credits

| USB Credits | ECTS |
|:-----------:|:----:|
|      4      |   8  |

## Hours

| Theory Hours Per Week | Practice Hours Per Week | Laboratory Hours Per Week | Total Hours (12 week Trimester) |
|:---------------------:|:-----------------------:|:-------------------------:|:-------------------------------:|
|           4           |            1            |             0             |                60               |

## Objectives

### Generals

It is desired that the student knows alternative techniques to conventional statistics such as neural networks and is able to apply them in real situations where statistical techniques could have important limitations.

The course is designed for the student to master the concepts and techniques associated with the various neuronal paradigms that are studied, as well as to be able to use software for their application or implement their own routines and use them. In this way, the theoretical knowledge obtained is strengthened by the immediate application thereof to real problems of interest.

The course emphasizes the various configurations of neural networks that can be obtained and the various training algorithms that can be used, according to the problem being attempted.

### Specifics

* Understand and apply concepts and techniques of neural networks, appropriate selection of training and validation sets for them, detect patterns and make approaches using neural paradigms.
* Write software for the application of the techniques studied to data sets in different areas, and interpret the results obtained within the framework of the problem being analyzed.

## Topics

* Introduction to MATLAB. Construction and manipulation of vectors, basic arithmetic, logical variables., Data reading, data structures: matrices, arrays, data sheets, lists. Graphics. (1 week)
* Introduction. Motivation. Analogy between artificial and biological neural networks. (1 week)
* Single layer networks. Optimization techniques as learning algorithms. Linear filters of least squares. Algorithms Training Curves. Perceptron convergence theorem. Limitations. (3 weeks)
* Multilayer networks. Backpropagation algorithm. Exit representation and decision rules. Backpropagation and differentiation. Cross validation. Network simplification techniques. Convergence of the backpropagation algorithm. Improvements and limitations to the backpropagation algorithm. Examples: feature detection, approximation, XOR, numerical experiments. (3 weeks)
* Functional networks of radial bases. Cover theorem. Theory of regularization, regularized networks. Estimation of regularization parameters. Comparison with multilayer networks. Learning strategies. Examples: interpolation problems, XOR, numerical experiments. (1 week)
* Unsupervised networks. Motivation and definition. Kohonen unsupervised networks. Training Algorithm. Map of self-organized features. Examples (two weeks)

## Literature

* Simon Haykin, "Neural Networks, a comprehensive foundation", second edition. Prentice Hall. 1999.
* MATLAB Neural Networks toolbox user manual, (available online), <http://www.mathworks.com/access/helpdesk/help/toolbox/nnet/>.
* Sergios Theodoridis and Konstantinos Koutroumbas, "Pattern Recognition", second edition. Elseiver Academic Press. 2003.
* Christopher Bishop, “Neural Networks for pattern recognition”, Oxford press, 1995

## Required to Complete

Two examns and Projects for all the paradigms seen in class.

## Validity

From January 2005.
