# PS-1115 Information Systems I

## Credits

| USB Credits | ECTS |
|:-----------:|:----:|
|      4      |   8  |

## Hours

| Theory Hours Per Week | Practice Hours Per Week | Laboratory Hours Per Week | Total Hours (12 week Trimester) |
|:---------------------:|:-----------------------:|:-------------------------:|:-------------------------------:|
|           4           |            3            |             1             |                96               |

## Objectives

### Generals

* Establish the theoretical basis that allows the deduction of a dynamic methodology for the development of information systems based on conceptual principles of the general theory of development systems and methodologies that are currently used.
* Have a practical experience in the use of the knowledge acquired in theory by applying a work methodology in solving a real case.

### Specifics

* Identify the basic concepts of general systems theory.
* Understand information systems. Its categorization and its role within organizations.
* Establish differences between the different methodologies of information system development, (oriented to function, data, objects, etc.).
* Learn in detail the methodologies for developing systems most frequently used.
* Apply them conveniently in solving a problem or real-life case.

## Topics

* Chapter I: Introduction General Systems Theory (TGS). Approaches: Synergy.
* Chapter II: Recursivity. Systemic and systematic.
* Chapter III: Systems and concepts.
* Chapter IV: Organizations as systems.
* Chapter V: Systems management. Role of the Information Systems Analyst.
* Chapter VI: Classic life cycle.
* Chapter VII: Analyst Skills.
* Chapter VIII: Methodologies. Concepts.
* Chapter IX: Function-oriented methodology, instruments and techniques.
* Chapter X: Methodology oriented to data, instruments and techniques.
* Chapter XI: Object-oriented methodology, instruments and techniques.
* Chapter XII: Types of Information Systems systems.
  * Data processing systems.
  * Management information systems.
  * Decision support systems.
  * Executive support systems.
  * Expert systems.
  * Office automation systems. Groupware.

## Literature

* Alter, S. Information systems. A management perspective. Second edition. The Benjamin/Cumming Publishing Company, 1996.
* Conger, S.; Valacich J. The new software engineering. Wadsworth Publishing Company, 1996.
* Donaldson D., Sandra. Systems Analysis and Desig and the Transition to Objects. McGraw Hill Inc., 1996.
* Hoffer J., George J. Modern systems analysis and desing. The Benjamin/Cumming Publishing Company, 1996.
* Kendall, E. y Kendall, J. Systems analysis and design. Third edition. Prentice Hall, 1995.
* Mintzberg, H. y Brian, J. The strategy process concepts, contexts, cases. Third edition. Prentice Hall, 1996.
* Norma R. Object-oriented systems analysis and desing. Prentice Hall, 1996.
* O’brien, J. Introduction to information systems, Eighth edition, Irwin/McGraw-Hill, 1997.
* Whitten, Jeffrey L. & Whitten Bentley, Lonnie D. Systems Analysis and Desing Methods. 4th Edition. Erwin/Mc Graw Hill, 1998.

## Required to Complete

Two Examns, Quizzes, Homerwork and Project through the course.

## Validity

From May 2013.
