# PS-1111 Linear Models

## Credits

| USB Credits | ECTS |
|:-----------:|:----:|
|      4      |   8  |

## Hours

| Theory Hours Per Week | Practice Hours Per Week | Laboratory Hours Per Week | Total Hours (12 week Trimester) |
|:---------------------:|:-----------------------:|:-------------------------:|:-------------------------------:|
|           4           |            3            |             1             |                96               |

## Objectives

### General

Introduce the student to the art of modeling, the use of models and their resolution for management and that serve as support in decision making.

### Specific

Provide the student with optimization techniques and their fundamentals, in order to acquire the necessary knowledge to optimize some management processes such as linear programming problems, physical distribution and project control (PERT-CPM).

## Topics

* Introduction:
  * Introduction to linear programming.
  * Models of linear programming.
  * Mathematical formulation.
* The Problem of Linear Programming:
  * Definition and properties of the linear programming problem.
  * Formulation of linear programming problems.
  * Applications of linear programming problems.
  * Graphic resolution of linear programming problems in two dimensions.
* Duality and Sensitivity Analysis:
  * Definition of the dual problem.
  * Formulation of the dual problem.
  * Interpretation of the dual variables.
  * Objectives of sensitivity analysis.
  * Graphical sensitivity analysis of linear programming problems.
  * Study of the different cases of sensitivity analysis.
  * Sensitivity analysis through computational packages.
* The Transportation Problem:
  * Definition of the transport problem.
  * Unbalanced transport models.
  * Transportation through the computer packages.
  * Transhipment models.
  * Transhipment through computer packages.
  * Special transport cases.
* PERT-CPM:
  * Introduction to the PERT-CPM technique.
  * Diagramming for PERT-CPM.
  * Determination of the critical path.
  * Construction of the time diagram.
  * Probabilistic considerations.
  * Consideration of costs.
  * PERT-CPM through computer packages.

## Literature

* Anderson, D. R .; Sweeney, D. J .; Williams, T. A. (2005). Quantitative methods for business. 9th Edition, Thomson.
* Eppen, G. D .; Gould, F. J .; Schmidt, C. P .; Moore, J. H .; Weatherford, L. R. (2000). Operations Research in Administrative Science. Pearson (Prentice-Hall).
* Hillier, F. S; Liberman, G. J. (2002). Operations research. 7th Edition, McGraw-Hill.
* Render, Quantitative methods for business. 9th Edition, Thomson.
* Taha, H. A. (2004). Operations research. 7th Edition, Pearson (Prentice-Hall).
* Winston, W. L. (2005). Operations research. Applications and Algorithms. 4th Edition, Thomson.

## Required to Complete

Two Examns and Project through the course.

## Validity

From July 2006.
