# FS-1111 Physics I

## Credits

| USB Credits | ECTS |
|:-----------:|:----:|
|      3      |   6  |

## Hours

| Theory Hours Per Week | Practice Hours Per Week | Laboratory Hours Per Week | Total Hours (12 week Trimester) |
|:---------------------:|:-----------------------:|:-------------------------:|:-------------------------------:|
|           3           |            2            |             1             |                72               |

## Topics

* Introduction to Physics: Physical quantities, measurements, units. (2 hours)
* Vectors: Graphical and analytical representation. Components of a vector. Sum of vectors. Product of a scalar by a vector. Scalar and vector product. (8 hours)
* Particle Kinematics: Vectors position, speed and acceleration. 1-D movement; freefall. 2-D movement. Projectile movement. Circular motion. 3-D movement. Relative movement. Galileo transformations. (14 hours)
* Particle Dynamics: Inertial reference systems. Newton's laws. Amount of movement. Friction force. Dynamics of circular motion. Hooke's law. (16 hours)
* Work and Energy: Definition of work. Work and kinetic energy. Conservative Forces. Potential energy. Energy conservation. Power. Impulses and collisions. (14 hours)
* Oscillatory Movement: Stable balance and oscillatory movement. Simple harmonic movement. Simple pendulum. Body at the end of a spring. Energy considerations of simple harmonic movement. Cushioned movement. (8 hours)

## Literature

* Sears, Zemansky, Young and Freedman. University Physics Vol. I. Pearson, Addison, Wesley.
* Resnick, Halliday and Krane. Physical. Vol. I. Continental Publishing Company.
* Bauer and Westfall. Physics for Engineering and Sciences. Vol. I. Mc Graw Hill
* Tipler / Fly. Physics for Science and Technology. Vol I. Editorial Reverté.
* Serway and Jewett. Physics for Sciences and Engineering. Vol. I. Thomson.

## Required to Complete

Three Examns.

## Validity

From January 1991.
