# FS-1112 Physics II

## Credits

| USB Credits | ECTS |
|:-----------:|:----:|
|      3      |   6  |

## Hours

| Theory Hours Per Week | Practice Hours Per Week | Laboratory Hours Per Week | Total Hours (12 week Trimester) |
|:---------------------:|:-----------------------:|:-------------------------:|:-------------------------------:|
|           3           |            2            |             1             |                72               |

## Topics

* Rotation Motion: Kinematics of rotation; rigid body definition. Vectors. Angular velocity and angular acceleration. (8 hours)
* Rotation Dynamics: Definition of torque and amount of angular motion of a particle. Particle systems, calculation of its center of mass and its amount of angular movement. Energy in the rotation motion. Moment of inertia. Combined movement of rotation and translation of a rigid body. (12 hours)
* Static Equilibrium of Rigid Bodies: Center of mass and center of gravity. Stability of balance. (5 hours)
* Movement Under Central Forces: Amount of angular movement and angular velocity. Central forces; gravitation as an example of central force, universal gravitation law, Kepler laws, energy considerations of the movement of satellites. (9 hours)
* Hydrostatic: Definition fluid pressure and density. Pascal principle and Archimedes principle. (6 hours)
* Heat Phenomenology: Temperature, thermal equilibrium. Specific heat and heat. Heat and work, mechanical equivalent of heat. First Law of Thermodynamics. (8 hours)
* Kinetic Theory: Ideal gas. Kinetic theory of the ideal gas. Specific heat. Energy sharing. (6 hours)
* Second Law of Thermodynamics: Reversible and irreversible processes. Carnot cycle Second law of thermodynamics. Entropy (8 hours)

## Literature

* Sears, Zemansky, Young, Freedman, University Physics, Vol. I. Pearson Addison Wesley.
* Resnick, Halliday and Krane. Physical. Vol. I. Continental Publishing Company.
* Serway and Jewett. Physics for Sciences and Engineering. Vol. I. Thomson.
* Bauer and Westfall. Physics for Engineering and Sciences. Vol. I. Mc Graw Hill.
* Tipler / Mosca. Physics for Science and Technology. Vol. I. Editorial Reverté.

## Required to Complete

Three Examns.

## Validity

From January 1991.
