# MA-1112 Mathematics II

## Credits

| USB Credits | ECTS |
|:-----------:|:----:|
|      4      |   8  |

## Hours

| Theory Hours Per Week | Practice Hours Per Week | Laboratory Hours Per Week | Total Hours (12 week Trimester) |
|:---------------------:|:-----------------------:|:-------------------------:|:-------------------------------:|
|           4           |            2            |             0             |                72               |

## Topics

* Antiderivatives. Indefinite Integrals (including trigonometric functions and their inverse).
* Sum and sigma notation. Introduction to areas. Definite integral.
* Properties of the definite integral (including additive property of intervals). First fundamental theorem of calculus.
* Second fundamental theorem of calculus. Theorem of the mean value for integrals.
* Evaluation of defined integrals. Rule of substitution (theorem A and B). Areas.
* Integration by substitution. Trigonometric integrals.
* Natural logarithmic function. Properties. Logarithmic derivative.
* Natural exponential function. General logarithmic and exponential functions.
* Rationalizing substitutions. Integration by parts.
* Integration by parts.
* Hyperbolic functions and their inverse.
* Integration of rational functions.
* Review of the L'Hopital rule. Other indeterminate forms. Improper integrals (infinite limits integration).
* Improper Integrals. (Infinite integrands).
* Volumes of revolution. (Discs and Washers).
* Volumes of revolution. (Shells).

## Literature

* Purcell, Varberg and Rigdon. Calculus. Editorial Prentice Hall, 8th Edition.
* Louis Leithold. Calculus. Publisher: Oxford University Press, 7th Edition.
* James Stewart. Calculus of a single Variable. 4th Edition.

## Required to Complete

Three Examns.

## Validity

From Januar 2005.
