# MA-1116 Mathematics III

## Credits

| USB Credits | ECTS |
|:-----------:|:----:|
|      4      |   8  |

## Hours

| Theory Hours Per Week | Practice Hours Per Week | Laboratory Hours Per Week | Total Hours (12 week Trimester) |
|:---------------------:|:-----------------------:|:-------------------------:|:-------------------------------:|
|           4           |            2            |             0             |                72               |

## Topics

* Matrices. Operations with matrices. Examples.
* Systems of m equations with n variables. Elementary row operations. Stepped matrix, stepped reduced. Methods of Gauss and Gauss-Jordan.
* Systems with one solution, with infinite solutions and inconsistent; Homogeneous and non-homogeneous.
* Matrices and linear equations systems. Identity matrix. Invertible Matrix. Calculation of the inverse of a matrix. Equivalent matrices by rows.
* Transposed matrix, symmetric matrix. Determinants.
* Determinants properties.
* Determinant of the Inverse. Adjoint matrix. Calculating the inverse using the adjoint.
* Vectors in the plane and in space. Scalar product and projections.
* Vector product. Lines and planes in space.
* Real vector spaces. Subspaces.
* Linear combination and generated space. Linear independence.
* Base and dimension. Range, nullity. Row space and column space.
* Inner product spaces on real vector space.
* Orthogonal projection. Orthogonal sets. Gram-Schmidt process.
* Linear transformations. Properties of Linear Transformations.
* Image and core. Matrix associated to a linear transformation. Give examples using the canonical bases of the Real Vector Space, the Polynomial Space and the Matrix Space.
* Eigenvalues and eigenvectors. Real and Complex.
* Similar matrices. Diagonalization. Symmetric matrices. Orthogonal diagonalization.

## Literature

* Grossman, Stanley. Linear algebra. 5th Edition (*). Ed. Mc Graw Hill 1999. (* the fourth edition can also be used)
* Fraleigh. Linear algebra. Ed. Addison-Wesley Iberoamericana, 1989.

## Required to Complete

Three Examns.

## Validity

From April 2006.
