# MA-1111 Mathematics I

## Credits

| USB Credits | ECTS |
|:-----------:|:----:|
|      4      |   8  |

## Hours

| Theory Hours Per Week | Practice Hours Per Week | Laboratory Hours Per Week | Total Hours (12 week Trimester) |
|:---------------------:|:-----------------------:|:-------------------------:|:-------------------------------:|
|           4           |            2            |             0             |                72               |

## Topics

* Real number properties. Logic. Inequalities.
* Absolute Value. Inequalities with Absolute Value.
* Coordinate system. Equation of the circumference and the line. Parallel and perpendicular lines.
* Functions. Domain and Rank. Absolute Value Function, Integer Part Function. Operations with functions: sum, differences, product, quotient and composition. Translations.
* The natural and general exponential function. Injective function. Inverse function.
* Definition of the natural and general logarithm as inverse of the corresponding exponentials.
* Trigonometric functions and their inverse. Hyperbolic functions and their inverse. Hyperbolic Identities.
* Limit theorems. Limits involving trigonometric, exponential, logarithmic and hyperbolic functions where the rule of L'Hôpital is not necessary
* Limits to infinity. Vertical asymptote, horizontal and oblique.
* Continuity of functions. Types of discontinuities. Continuity in an interval. Theorem of the intermediate value.
* Straight tangent to the graph of a function. Instant speed. Derivatives. Derivability implies continuity.
* Referral rules. Derivatives of rational polynomial functions, trigonometric, exponential, etc.
* Chain rule. Derivatives of higher order. Implicit derivation.
* Derivative of inverse functions. Derivative of logarithmic and inverse trigonometric functions. Logarithmic derivation.
* Derivatives of hyperbolic functions and their inverse.
* Rolle's Theorem. Theorem of the mean value for derivatives. Their geometric interpretations and their applications. Bisection method.
* Undetermined forms of type 0/0. L'Hôpital rule for such indeterminate form.
* L'Hôpital for Infinite / Infinite. Other indeterminate forms.

## Literature

* Purcel, Varbeg and Rigdon. Calculus. Editorial Prentice-Hall. Ninth edition (2007).
* T. Apostle Calculus Vol. 1 Editorial Reverté. Second Edition (2006)
* J. Stewart Calculus of a single variable.
* Spivack. Calculus. Editorial Reverté.

## Required to Complete

Three Examns.

## Validity

From September 2008.
